Trainable parameters are those which value is adjusted/modified during training as per their gradient. In Batch Normalization layer we have below mentioned trainable params: gamma: It's a scaling factor. beta: a learned offset factor.To sum-up: 'trainable parameters' are those which value is modified according to their gradient (the derivative of the error/loss/cost relative to the parameter), whereas 'non-trainable parameters' are those which value is not optimized according to their gradient.Trainable parameters between input layer and first hidden layer: 5×8 + 8 = 48. Trainable parameters between first and second hidden layers: 8×4 + 4 = 36. Trainable parameters between second hidden layer and output layer: 4×3 + 3 = 15. Total number of trainable parameters of the neural net: 48 + 36 + 15 = 99Thus, this feed-forward neural network has 94 connections in all and thus 94 trainable parameters.Artificial neural networks have two main hyperparameters that control the architecture or topology of the network: the number of layers and the number of nodes in each hidden layer. You must specify values for these parameters when configuring your network.Convolutional_2 : As convolutional_1 already learned 32 filters. So the number of trainable parameters in this layer is 3 * 3 * 32 + 1 * 32 = 9248 and so on. Max_pooling_2d: This layer is used to reduce the input image size.Reaching 6 parameters is below average, so the common sense that set the bar around 3 or 4, and “for sure, nothing beyond 6”, can be read on the actual coding. Methods with 10 arguments or more appear in less that 20% of projects. That's still quite a lot.Normally, You can pass 125 arguments/parameters in C and 255 or 256 in C++ but you should remember that functions are used to increase the execution speed of program and they provide better readability so the function should be passed only the necessary arguments.weights, bias) of any network layer, a Batch Norm layer also has parameters of its own: Two learnable parameters called beta and gamma. Two non-learnable parameters (Mean Moving Average and Variance Moving Average) are saved as part of the 'state' of the Batch Norm layer.In a CNN, each layer has two kinds of parameters : weights and biases. The total number of parameters is just the sum of all weights and biases. Let's define, = Number of weights of the Conv Layer. = Number of biases of the Conv Layer.More parameters, up to data-1, will give a better fit (i.e. reduced residuals) but not necessarily better understanding - see comments from others on how to assess this. The more parameters you have, the more poorly behaved the model is likely to be outside the range of data, or even between data points.Underfitting occurs when our machine learning model is not able to capture the underlying trend of the data. To avoid the overfitting in the model, the fed of training data can be stopped at an early stage, due to which the model may not learn enough from the training data.Overfitting is a concept in data science, which occurs when a statistical model fits exactly against its training data. When this happens, the algorithm unfortunately cannot perform accurately against unseen data, defeating its purpose.A neural net with many parameters is able to closely model a large range of functions (more parameters = better estimate of functions), however such large networks are slow, which makes overfitting an even bigger problem.
